alright so the changes we made at the
end of the last video enable us to send
the output to a file if you want to
using the technique we saw back in
Section 10 when we were writing to
files
alright so let's make sure that it still
works and that it looks the same as it did
before so now we can send the output to
a file and see how it displays in a
browser so lets actually do that so what
we're going to do is after the
tag the paragraph tag we're going to do
....
...
and we'll just open the project pane so
we can see that the file gets
created for us now if you are using
linux or mac do make sure you add the
dot HTML file extension even if you
wouldn't normally do that and I'll
explain why in a minute
now we can send the output of the
display method to a file by adding test
_doc as the named perimeter in the
call to display and you saw me do that on line
69 so let's just run this you can
see that was very quick and then the
file test.HTML appeared now intelliJ
understands about HTML so i can
right-click the test file in the project
pane the context menu their is an open in
browser down here and that's why I
mentioned that you should include the
file extension linux and osx don't
rely on the file extension to decide
what to do with the file but
intelliJ has adopted the windows
approach and does use the file extension
so if the file doesn't have a dot HTM or
dot HTML extension then you won't get
the option to open in your browser
alright so in my case though i'm going
to choose chrome which is the one that I
normally do when i'm recording videos
you can choose the default
browser and we can see that it's
actually popped up now and it's working
quite nicely
alright so that's composition now we've
used both
composition and inheritance in this program
so it's a good example of the
differences between them and when you
use each one so getting back to our code
now our basic classes all inherit from
tagged and when we talk about head for
example would say that head is a tag
similarly body is a tag and so is
doctype although doc type are slightly
different kind of tag it doesn't have a
corresponding end tag so whenever you
have a relationship that can be
described using is a that's an
indication that you should consider
using inheritance to model the objects
composition is used when the
relationship is described as a has a a
document has a doctype and has a body so
composition is more appropriate to model
the document
ok there's another example of
composition being used in our body class
so let's have a look at that HTML
doc object has to contain a
doctype a head tag and a body tag so it's
effectively not an HTML document without
them
so these three components are created
when each instance of the class is
created in the init method you can see
its doing that down here starting on line
47 now body object has any number of
tags and maybe empty that would make for
a very interesting document but it would
actually conform to the specification so
we don't create any objects when body
instances are created instead we just
create an empty list ready to contain
the tags when they're added you can see
that code for that here on line 32 now
when a tag is added to the body by
calling the body classes add_
tag method a new tag objects created then
appended to the list now this is also
composition but now the body class has
its own attributes isn't just composed
of its composite classes
it has an underscore body _
contents data attribute and a method
called add underscore tag
alright so at this point anything else
to say about this wil all be repetition
so it's time for a challenge to
consolidate what we covered to give you
a bit of a chance to apply it at the
moment ahead class doesn't create a
document header with anything in it
so your challenge is to modify the
program so that the head class can
include a title tag and your HTML should
look something like this
although there's no need to include
line-breaks indenting I've just done
that to make it easy to read but the
text for the title will be passed to the
html dot classes init method where
the documents created alright so that's
the challenge see how you go with that
pause the video and I'll see you when
you get back ok so the basic approach
this challenge will probably be the same
for all solutions but you may well have
a different implementation to my
solution as always that's fine
the real test is does it work if you get
the correct HTML produced then
congratulations
alright so if you read through the basic
HTML structure that we looked in the
browser earlier you may have noticed
that the head can contain a few
different tags so you may have made the
head class behave like a body class with
an add_tag method to add new content
to the head element that's fine it's
probably the way you do things so that
the program correctly reflects the HTML
specification the challenge we asked for
a title so for my solution i'm just
going to add a title and nothing more
so the first step is to modify the head
class and we need to modify the init
method to take another argument which
effectively will be the title going to
come up here we're going to put....
....
...
....so this creates a new
tag with the name title and the contents
being the text that was passed in to the
init method now the head contents are
then set to this the string
representation of this new tag now we
can improve that slightly
if the title doesn't contain any text
then we really don't want an empty tag
inside the head so we can give the title
parameter a default value than test
this before creating the tag
let's go ahead and do that i'm going to
put....
...
alright next thing we need to do is
modify the HTML dot class now first it
needs a parameter to the init method to
accept the title and we'll use a named
parameter with the default value here as
well that way a document can be created
without providing a title so come
down to the html doc the init Method...
...
...now the html .
class doesn't have to do anything with
the title it's just passing it on to the
head class when it creates a new head
object and that should be all we need to
do I'm going to start by making sure we haven't
broken anything so i'm going to run the
program if we don't got any errors that is a
good sign and what i can do is open the
project pane I can also double-click
that if i wanted to open the HTML file
in the default browser but I'm going to
right click it open a browser and choose
chrome again that's it opening up now
in a new tab if we have a look at the
HTML so far so good we haven't past a title
in so we haven't got a title and the
head tags up there on line three
so that's good that's working so let's
see now if it works when we do passing a
title and i'll provide that when we
create the HTML doc instance go back
to the code again
so where we need to change this is on line
67 let's just make that....
....all right we'll run
again in a browser or open in browser and
look at the source
okay for some reason we haven't got a
a title lets just go back and check our
code ok looking at the code
definitely got the title in there and we go
back down I'll go back up i should say
to the head
we've definitely got the title
arguments showing init method and we're
definitely creating a tag and that should all
be ok as far as I'm concerns just try
running it again and go back to browser
what we need to do is need to open it
again open browser Chrome again let's
just look at the page source and it is
....
...
...ok so false alarm
that was all working correctly and with
now got the test html containing a
title tag inside the head and by the way
the other way we could have checked for
that is if we just go back and
closed down these view sources depending on
the browser you can actually see the
title in the browser bar but I can't the way
chrome is configured on my
computer right now that would be a
second way of doing it anyway because in
my case I'm still just seeing the URL of
the document but depending on how your
browser is configured you probably see
the title in the browser's address bar
anyway
alright so that's it that's composition
in action in the next video we're going
to look at something that's often
described as a weaker form of
composition and that's aggregation see
you in the next video